From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes or weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman posted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
69. Recorded live Thursday, June 21st, 2007.
Support for Hanselman it's as
provided by Tellerik already controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net developers
journal the world's leading Dutton
and developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott and
Carl discussed current hardware and
building a new developer machine.
Hi, this is Carl Franklin. You're
listening to Hansel minutes from
Hanselman it's dot com. I'm
here with Scott Hanselman again.
Hi, mr. Scott, how are
you, sir? I'm fine. What's
up this fine day? Well,
I finally got permission from
the wife to build my
computer. The dream machine is
where this is the ultimate
developer rig the new computer
for the home. Awesome. I
was going to buy a
Mac book. I've been talking
about this on and off,
but, you know, and I,
I even went and put
it into my shopping cart
on apple.com and I let
it sit there for a
bit. I went to the
Apple store at the mall
and put it all together
and thought about it, but
I just couldn't justify $4,000
at this point when I
figured I don't really use
the Mac mini that I
have right now. So I'm
just going to hang back
a little bit on the
Mac, but I do use
my home PC a lot.
It's a P for, and
it's just not cutting it
for me right now. And
I've had a lot of
bad experiences with Vista and
I just felt that I
needed to get this machine
fresh. This was one of
those computers that I think
we all have had at
one point or another, where
we build it ourselves. We
went down to Fry's and
then we continue to kind
of make it a Frank
and computer adding a part
here and there. And, you
know, a couple hundred bucks
at a time trying to
keep it, keep it alive,
but it's just not happening
for me. So I wanted
to put together my own
machine, but I realized that
since, gosh, I haven't been
really good at building hardware
since the Pentium three Pentium
four days and all this
new core, two duo stuff
was a little out of
my expertise. So I called
Jeff Atwood from coding horror.
That's what happens when you
have an it department at
your disposal? It's funny how
that works, but I really
wanted to make a great
machine. And then I realized
that as I looked around
on the net, there's so
many people building ultimate gamer
rigs. I just not interested
in an ultimate game or
rig. I wanted an ultimate
developer rig. Just like if
you built a machine, you'd
want it to be a
really good video and audio
editing rig. Yeah. Well, it's
Funny, I thought about this
when you told me about
today's topic and you know,
a developer rig doesn't really
need to be the Mondo.
Giganto powerful thing in terms
of processor speed more Ram
is good. Of course, but
I don't think it has
to be up there with,
you know, ones that are
machines that are going to
do video processing per se,
or realtime rendering or anything
like that. Just because, you
know, the compiler is pretty
darn fast, even on a,
even on a slow machine
by today's standards. Well, the
other things that I wanted
to be able to deal
with from a developer perspective
is things like parallel builds
like an orcas. Ms. Build
allows you to tell it
how many processors you want
it to, how many processes
you want it to spin
up to do parallel builds.
So that's the kind of
thing we're putting together. A,
a quad core system might,
might be a real benefit.
But now that you mentioned
it, Scott, I think that
maybe the power, it would
be good if you're going
to be running virtual PCs
or VMware sessions, which many
developers do, or even virtual
server to do testing against,
against server configurations. So, so
in that, in that sense,
yes, you probably do want
more power. Yeah. I wanted
to find a balance between
the money power, you know,
price, performance ratio. You know,
I first I said, well,
maybe I'll just go nuts.
I'll, I'll spend four thousand five thousand dollars, make
it a business expense and
buy the ultimate computer. But
it seemed to me and
I talked with Jeff, Jeff
Atwood, my friend from coding
horror.com that there is really
a sweet spot around anywhere
between 1600 and $2,000 where
you can put together quite
a machine. And if you
go and spend double that
or triple that you really
don't get twice the machine
or three times that machine,
you get some amazing stuff,
but you know, the difference
between a $200 processor and
a $500 processor and a
$900 processor, it's really all
just kind of artificial it's
it's prices are always dropping.
Anything you buy now, of
course it's gonna be obsolete
in a few years. Yeah.
But we wanted to find
that that balance I've always
found the sweet spot. Pretty
easy to identify by going
to new ag.com and looking
at each category, you know,
processors and whatever, and then
sort by most popular and
really smart over there. Yeah.
It's not just the, the
best, the best rated cause
sometimes the best rated will
also be the most expensive,
but the most popular tells
you where the sweet spot
is for any given component
And, and new egg is
where I ended up buying
this stuff. The list that
I purchased a list of
products I purchased was that
shrink stir.com/q five zero. And
there's a lot of really
interesting discussion going up on
the blog right now because
a lot of folks have
found places where I could
have potentially squeezed a couple
of hundred dollars here and
there saves them money. Everyone's
got opinions about motherboard brands,
of course, you know, and
got opinions about hard drive.
And of course the longer
that post stays there, the
more comments you're going to
get because of the prices
will be changing. Right. But
it adheres, here's basically what
we tried to put together.
And I'm thinking again about
the developer, you know, so
I've got a, a steel
ATX mid tower case from
Antech. Nice. I could have
gone bigger and heavier. There's
a guy who does custom
cases. And there's also cases
that you can get where
the entire case is a
giant heat sink, big aluminum
Zalman thing. Exactly. But this,
this particular one was a
balance. It's a little spendy
for a case to 150
bucks, but it's a gunmetal
black real dark case literally
fit in with the way
I like things. And it's
a mid tower. So it's
big enough that we'll be
able to put some sound
damping by the way I
use these cases myself and
I love them. You do.
Yeah. So this is the
Antech P one 82 that
we got. Yep. I don't
know a lot about motherboards
anymore. I was an ACS
guy for a while. I'd
used a bit. And while
I've gotten a lot of
negative flack for the, the
choice we made, which was
an MSI motherboard, Jeff and
his experience has found that
it's actually a pretty decent
motherboard. It's got the Nvidia
and forest chip set on
it. It's a, it's an
LGA seven 75 Intel motherboard.
It's a pretty decent motherboard.
It's got all the things
you would expect. As far
as lots of USB ports,
it's got gigabit land built
into it. It's got really
nice cooling. The chip set
is set up with aluminum
pipes and some really nice
Northbridge, passive cooling. Jeff really
likes to focus on how
is this thing going to
be as quiet as possible
and as powerful as possible.
My current system is a
real loud system. It is
really obnoxious. It sounds like
a jet plane. I don't,
I don't really see anything
wrong with this. I, I
would want to make sure
that the chip sets for
the Nvidia Northbridge in Southbridge
exists for Vista before I
bought that. But you can
see that the, the total
there's 195 reviews in 77%
of them are positive. So
I would say that's, that's
pretty good. That's telling. Yeah.
It's interesting. How in the
kinds of purchasing decisions that
folks make, whether it be
here or on Amazon, that
you can really count on
the reviews. There's a balance
that gets found when you
get a lot of reviews,
you know, more than a
few dozen, you can get
a real good sense about
the real world experiences that
folks have. Yeah. And the
thing to do isn't to
read the positive reviews, read
the negative ones, see what
the negative reviewers say about
them. Sometimes they're just mad
because, you know, they took
him three weeks to get
it out the door or
something like that. But sometimes
people have legitimate problems. Yeah.
And one of the things
that's also worth watching out
for is whether or not
you get a sense that
this particular motherboard manufacturer is,
is focused on having the
bios updated a lot, getting
the firmware updated, you know,
they may have problems initially,
but if they can deal
with them or offer you
other benefits through a constantly
are often updated firmware, particularly
for the overclock, or this
is a real valuable thing
to watch out for. So
I'm not unhappy with this
motherboard, but this certainly something
I could, I could swap
out at some point I
do like also that this
one has an external SJTA
or Satta connector. So I've
got options for my external
hard drives. You know, I've
got a lot of external
hard drives in the, in
the stuff that I do.
I run a lot of
VMs on external hard drives,
right? Well, this has a
FireWire port and all the
requisite USB ports, having an
external Satta connector is a
nice, a nice benefit. I
think, as more and more
drives a switch over to
Satta, which, which has a
bandwidth gets you something like
three, three gigabits, a second.
We're actually running this machine
now, or are you just
not ready to order as
we ordered it? And I've
shipped it down to Jeff
in California, and I'm going
down to San Francisco on
Friday and I'm gonna meet
up with him at his
office and we'll build it.
So we'll have to have
a followup show, of course.
And you can tell us
what, So we'll get, we'll
get Jeff on the show
with us and he can
explain, cause this is not
just a matter of putting
it together. Certainly folks that
listen to this podcast are
the kinds of folks who
could put together a machine.
It's not just the pouring
it into a container, but
the followup show we'll do.
We'll talk about what are
the kinds of things we
can do to make it
silent. Cool. There's a lot
of people out there that
are focused on making silent
PCs. There's a great website@shrinks.com
slash Q five to silent
PC review, silent PC review.com
that has a lot of
focus on what can you
do to find that balance
between performance and being silent.
For example, I'm going with
a Western digital Raptor drive
for my, for my main
system drive very nice. So
thousand RPM drive and it
spins real loud, but there's
techniques you can do to
dampen that kind of, that
kind of sound that a
drive like that makes, for
example, suspending it inside of
a, a container that has
basically suspending an air via
rubber bands. Yeah. There's sound
is sound damping and vibration
damping kind of equipment that
you can plug into it.
You can do it. I
can just put it in
a closet. Yeah. You know,
it's funny. I used to
do that once I took
a box and I just
shoved it in the closet,
the problem was it made
the closet really hot and
that particular box would overheat
a lot. Right? Because I
did a poor job of
doing the cooling right now.
A lot of people have
been going back and forth
on whether it developer machine
really needs raid and, you
know, raid specifically for mirroring.
And I go back and
forth on this myself, but
I already have a, a
Western digital, one 50 on
my current machine. That was
the very last piece of
hardware that I bought to
make that machine faster. Right.
I thinking I'm going to
take that drive once I've
brought everything over to the
new system and I'm going
to end up mirroring my,
my system drive. Cause there's
going to two things to
worry about. There's the getting
the box back from the
dead. Do you, do you
mirror it? Do you do
raid on your system drive
so you can bring it
back or the other option?
Of course, other than just
doing raid, mirroring for your
system drivers to take images
a lot with you use
something like Acronis true image,
or whether you use a
windows home server, what is
going to happen as a
developer when your machine dies,
whether your C drive blows
up or whether your data
drive blows up. So there's
kind of two different things
to deal with there. I
do both. I would, I
like raid, but I also
take images all the time.
Speaking of rate and drives,
you should head on over
to shrinks.com/oh four X and
check out the stack Zeus
solid state drive, which is
a no moving parts. It's
a flash drive. That's up
to 256 gigs. That'd be
pretty expensive, pretty expensive. A
think, I remember Richard Campbell telling
me that they are hoping
to get the price down
to $2, a gigabyte by
2010 or something. And you
know, that'll happen by 2009
or 2000, you know, end
of next year, Right. But
it's over 200 times faster
than a 15,000 RPM enterprise
hard disc drive. But you
know, that's what happens when
you don't have any magnetic
meetings. It's interesting that they're
making hard drives faster and
faster. They're upping the MTBF
the meantime before failure, some
drives have double the MTBF
of another drive. A number
of people in the comments
said that I should get
a little bit higher RPM
drive rather than the, the
Raptor get the Mac store
Atlas, which is now at
15,000 RPM. I didn't know.
So cheetah, it was we'll
do 15,000 RPM. So for,
for really heavy IO, these,
these particular drives are pretty
hardcore. It can do basically
three, 400 megabytes a second,
theoretically. They also include a
lot of cash, 16 Meg
cash on the, on the
drive itself with only a
3.1 millisecond Sikh time. Wow.
But here's where the balance
happens, right? A drive like
that. It's going to cost
you, you know, 500, $600,
right? Like for example, if
you were going to go
and get an Atlas, you
might cost you 500 bucks.
You want to do raid.
Then you suddenly, you're looking
at more than the cost
of the entire system being
spent just on that. So
would you really get 50%
more speed? You know, I
don't know, but from a,
from a price performance balance,
the digital Russian digital rap
tour, 10,000 RPM, perhaps about
200 bucks and you can
find them around for one
75, if you hunt versus
a five or $600 drive
with the 15,000 RPM also
The faster they go, usually
the lower capacity they go
up to. Yeah, the 15
thousands right now at, at
one 50. And then the
Western digital for a long
was a 75 gig drive.
Now with the perpendicular configuration
that they're using, they're able
to get more on that.
But I know, I don't
know if I want my
bits that close to each
other, frankly. Well, my machine
actually has to wrap tour
15,000 RPM, 150 drives mirrored
as a RPM. I'm sorry,
10,000 RPM. Okay. Yes. Mirrored
with onboard raid. So that
is my boot drive and
that works well. It works
great. And you're using the
builtin rate on the hardware
on the, on the, Yes
I am, because I also
have a PCI express rate
controller, but that's for the
data. Yeah. Interesting. Now for,
for me on this particular
instance, I'm just going to
have a data drive. That'll
be a kind of a
standard Seagate Barracuda. It's only
a hundred dollars. It will
be a 500 gig drive
and that'll just be, you
know, D for data, right.
I've got a lot of
external drives and, you know,
I used to hoard you
video. I would have my
media center recording video and
I use my computer as
a DVR. Right. I'm doing
that less and less. And
I'm realizing that with things
like blockbuster.com and Netflix, the
movies that I want to
watch can be gotten quickly.
Yeah. There's no reason for
me to hoard all this
stuff. So while I used
to have, you know, a
terabyte and a half of
this kind of stuff, all
my DVDs ripped onto the
machine, it seems for me,
at least personally, the, the
psychic weight of having to
worry about whether that data
is backed up or, or
safe didn't become worth the
benefit. So I'm finding less
and less that I need
that kind of storage. And
now I'm just focusing on
having images of all the
machines in my house backed
up. That's right. It's more
important to me to be
able to get my wife's
laptop back from the dead
than it is for me
to, you know, hoard a
video of DVDs that I
already have. Right. So let's
talk about the processor that
you chose here. Yeah. This
was an interesting one because
this is where I was
not very educated about this,
but I wanted to find
a processor that wasn't going
to be kind of like
the, whatever, Intel selling $4,000
processor. Right. But I didn't
want to just get a
standard core, two duo. I
wanted something a little bit
more and Jeff suggested the
core to quad Q 6,600,
Meaning it has four dies.
Yeah. It's a F it's
a quad core. Holy crap
processor. Now, when I bought
it, it was five 31
it's already down to four,
four 98. And one of
the tipsters in my, in
my blog post here said
that the price of that
quad Q 6,600 is going
down to two 66 on
July 22nd. Oh my goodness. So
I jumped the gun and
it costs me 250 bucks,
but the general impression is
that this is the, the
processor to have, they're cutting
it in half again on
July 22nd. And you'll be able
to, now, if you want
it to, then you would
get B Corp to extreme.
So that would be the
67. I never understood the
difference between the regular Intel
chips and the extreme chips.
Do you know the difference?
I don't hope hopefully someone
will send us a note.
We'll get a flood of
mail explaining what the difference
is. I really don't like
the way that they do
these. I don't know any
more. It doesn't make any
sense, mean maybe I'm an
old school, but once I
figured out S you know,
46 SX versus 46 DX,
I figured that all was
right with the world. Right.
But now it's like the
core two quad Q 6,600
versus the core to quad
E 6,700. It's it's, it's
very confusing. Now. Some people
argue that the four cores
aren't really necessary, but you
know, if you've ever seen
me on a machine, I
know you have, I tend
to have a lot of
things going simultaneously. I switch
around a lot. You're very
likely to fire a process
off in the background and
then go and do something
else. I also sometimes do
some kind of personal processor
farming where I'll actually pin
a process down to a
processor. Yup. And then again,
with orcas, having this notion
of a parallel build, you
can get 25, 30% more
performance by running off multiple
instances of ms. Build for
real large, real large builds.
So for me, that was
definitely a valuable thing. Well,
I did spend too much
money because I didn't wait
till July to buy it.
The word on the street
is that that's, the process
should have. And according to
Jeff, that along with the
MSI motherboard makes for a
very overclocking friendly system. Okay.
So we might be able
to get that 2.4 gigahertz
to go up to three,
3.1, which could squeeze extreme
level speeds out of a
non extreme, extreme processor. I'm
not so sure that you're
going to, you're going to
see a big difference running
a developer machine with that
change and in between what
and what 2.4 and three
point, whatever. I'm not so
sure you'll see a difference,
but, but it is interesting.
I think maybe if you
were a gamer, you'd, you'd
be more interested in that.
It tell me about the,
the enormous heat sink cooler
thing that you got here.
What is that all about?
Yeah. This is the size
of a new musical, a
Ninja, basically. It's a giant
CPU cooler. I've got a
giant one on my system
right now. It's like something
that you'd see at the
Indianapolis 500, Absolutely huge. And
we had to do some
measurements to make sure that
it would have room inside
of the, the system, right?
It's it's got copper parts.
It is real big. It's
a little bit less quality
than the Zalman heat sinks,
which are very well thought
of, right. But it's apparently
cools very, very well. It's
huge, but it doesn't really
matter that it's huge because
once it's mounted in there,
if it's mounted correctly, it
doesn't put too much lateral
pressure on the, on the
processor. One of the problems
with some of these giant
CPU coolers are that they
don't really clip well to
the motherboard. They can torque
the motherboard and also put
a lot of lateral pressure
on the Be very careful
in putting them in, you
know, one thing that I
like about this, and I'm
just looking at the picture
here is that it's got
pipes going up, either side
into these radiator type heat
sinks, and they sandwich a
fan. So there's a fan
in the middle. And then
the heat sinks around eat
either side of that. So
the, those things are getting
hot. And, and then of
course the fan is cooling
them off directly. And this
was a balance. I didn't
really feel like spending $150
for a cooler. So for,
for $35, it's a pretty
decent one. And it apparently
works very well. If you're,
overclocking like an E like
a 6,600 and you overclock
it to, to three gigahertz,
you can, you can get
idle temperatures of about 30
Celsius, which is pretty reasonable
and definitely cooler than my
current system runs. Now, again,
it's huge, but it cools
the things down and it
stays quiet. And that's really
the, the, the whole point
is to kind of keep
that case temperature, keep that
CPU temperature around 30 Celsius.
You went with a 520
watt power supply. What was
your thinking there? Well, this,
this Corsair power supply is
also very well thought of,
and I know that Jeff
has a lot of experience
with this particular one. I
have a tendency to put
a lot of drives in
my cases, even though I'm
an external hard drive guy,
you might be. If I
decided to do rate, I
might have four different drives
in there along with two
pretty large video cards. I
don't want to have any
chance that I'm not going
to have enough wattage. Most
often you don't need this
kind of, kind of water.
You can get away with
300 Watch, but having more
as a safe thing to
say In this case, having
more is pretty safe. It's
got a very, very quiet,
quiet fan that varies. It's
RPM based on temperature. It's
got a real nice modular
cable that lets you basically
choose the, the cables that
you want. They're very kind
of focused on just getting
the job done. You use
just the cables you want
no more, no less, as
opposed to having a big
giant fan of cables that
pops out of it, that
allows you to have much
better air flow in your,
in your case, just use
the cables you need. One
thing you should be careful
of when you're buying a
power supply. If you're going
to get one that's big.
And I mean, my power
supply, I don't mind telling
you is a megawatt. Wow,
it's a thousand Watts. And
I had a problem with
it because it was so
long that it, it was,
it was like solving one
of those puzzles that Delaware
always has at their booth
at, at, you know, the,
the shows that they have
those little logic puzzles. They're
like things that are interlocked
and only by twisting them
together in the right way
and moving your hands a
certain way. Can you, can
you take them apart? That's
what the experience was like,
getting this in the case,
it barely fit and be
loud. No, it's not loud
at all, but it just
big. And even though it
was a big case, you
know, the openings that were
available for me to put
things in, it just was
a little too big for
it. So yeah, but I
didn't get it in. This
is a pretty comfortable size.
And with the 520 Watts,
it's going to give me
enough power to do whatever
kind of overclocking I need.
And it's also very well
thought of as a very
quiet power supply. And even
though it's twice as much
as your average off the
street power supply, I don't
think that a power supply
is a place you want
to really, I agree. Skimp.
No. Yeah. You don't want
to take a chance. You
know, you've mentioned overclocking now
three or four times, and
I'm curious as to why
you think you're going to
be needing to overclock. I
don't think I'm needing to
overclock, but I don't want
to spend a thousand dollars
on a processor to get
the kind of performance that
I need. And I feel
like conservative overclocking and still
getting a great deal of
stability is just free speed.
You know, even if you're
only getting 15, 20% more,
more speed out of it,
if you can get the
thing, rock solid, if you
can run something like a
prime 95 or one of
those benchmarks and run the
thing really, really hot for
two, three days and have
it not blue screen on
you have a no trouble
at all, have no stability
issues, then why wouldn't you
want to? Well, I dunno,
I just, the, the, the
audit is something about that
just strikes me as a
little bit odd that, you
know, for a developer machine,
do you really need to
take the risk? And that's
what you're really doing. The
manufacturer has set the speed
saying this is a safe
speed for this processor. You
know, it, when you overclock,
you're just sort of tempting
fate. I think so. I
don't know. I don't know.
Yeah. I under, I understand
your point of view from,
from my point of view,
it was about the fastest
developer rig that I could
get for this price performance
ratio. And for me, a
very conservative over clock gave
me the performance I wanted
without increasing the price. Right.
I would just, I would
just recommend you try it
without overclocking first and I'll
do I'll do benchmarks both
ways. I actually did. Absolutely.
And then of course, when,
when doing overclocking, you want
to make sure that not
only does the, is the
processor well known for doing
for overclocking well, is the
motherboard friendly to the over
clocker? Does the power supply
provide the right amount of
voltage to be able to
do that? Right. And do
you have memory that will
appreciate that kind of overclocking
some memory is not, overclocking
friendly. Also some memory requires
a little bit more voltage
than the average motherboard wants
to give it. So we
have to think about those
kinds of things when, when
making these decisions. Yep. And
then we just ended it
up with some, some Kingston
Ram. We're going to get
four gigs just in case
I want to run 64
bit just going to get
for one gig sticks, very
inexpensive, only $200. That's interesting.
It looks like good Ram
and you know, the reviews
are pretty good. So Yeah.
You know, everyone's got opinions
about these kinds of things.
Either. You don't want to
skimp, but at the same
time, you don't want to
spend double if you don't
have to. So, you know,
fortunately with, with a building
assistant out of components like
this worst case scenario just
means that I'll have to
find another component. Of course,
the option would've been to
go with a Dell otherwise.
But I, I liked the,
the benefit that this kind
of modular design gives me
if this Ram doesn't work
out, I'll get something else,
right. You live in, you
learn, All right, Scott, let's
save the best for last
year video card. I see
it's a PCI express 16,
which right there tells you,
this is a serious video
card. Anybody who's doing getting
a new video card these
days is, should be looking
at PCI express 16. Yeah.
Yeah. This is a pretty
decent balance. This is a,
a, a G-Force 8,600 it's
256 Meg card. It's not,
you know, a super duper
$500 video card, but it
is a pretty serious video
card. It's it's basically say
on NVIDIA's 8,600 GTS core,
it's a dual width PCI
express card. So it's a,
it's a big, big card.
It's got two DVI outputs.
So one video card will
run two monitors, happily and
both. So those are our
dual link. Right? Right. Well,
well, yeah, the, the DVI
is our dual link. Yes,
yes. Sorry. I always think
that I was thinking you
were referring to SLI because
we're getting two of these
cards. They're about one 50
each. Right. And a lot
of folks assumed when we
put two cards in the
spec that we were talking
about running the SLI, right.
That would give you a,
some, some pretty serious performance
for a pretty, pretty decent
price. But for us, it
was about running four monitors,
right. About linking them. Or
you could actually run to
a 30 inch monitors like
the, the Dell or Apple
30 inch monitors, which are
right now. I think some
of the biggest monitors you
can get. Yeah. Pretty cool.
If you want to do
that. So, so how many
monitors do you plan to
run with this thing Right
now at home, I've got
two, but I'm considering getting
two more, a 22 inch
flat screens and putting them
on the, on the right
hand side. Right. And left
hand side respectably and kind
of bracketing my current dual
monitor system. It's interesting. You
know, I have a single
Dell, 30 inch display and
I don't, I find that
I'm, I don't miss having
two monitors, you know, having
that little bump in the
middle and having to physically
move my head a lot.
But you know, with 25,
60 by 1600 resolution, you
can pretty get pretty much
get a lot of stuff
in there. But, you know,
I can't say that. I
wouldn't like to have another
one. Know it really is
a kind of a religious
argument. A lot of people
think why not have just
a giant 30 inch when
I was visiting the guy,
some guys up in Seattle,
they had one giant 30
inch widescreen Dell, and they
had two 20 twos turned
on their side so that
their width was the same
height as the inch. Yeah.
And they would have them
left and right. So they
had a total of three
monitors. That's what Richard Campbell has.
That's the setup. It just
seems like a really nice
balance. Yep. Other thing I
like about this particular card,
this is from MSI is
it's already overclocked Hmm. They've
got a, a big, a
cooler attached to the thing.
Yeah. And there's ways to
make the fan silent because
a video card fan has
a tendency to make these
things really, really loud. What
you can do is you
can others tips actually in
the, in the reviews of
this particular card, up on
Newegg, where you can kind
of fool around with the
way that the fan plugs
into the card and you
can get the, the fan
running slower, it sort of
runs silently or darn near
silent. Yep. So it not
only overclocks nicely, but it's
got a pretty decent cooler
of its own that they've
added on to the, to
the reference design. So it
seemed like a real, a
good balance. You know, I'm
not someone who's going to
spend the amount of money
I spent on my Xbox
on a single video card.
But when I play the
occasional game, I'd like it
to work. But additionally, if
I'm going to have all
the eye candy of a
Vista, I don't want to
have to think about, I
agree. We know cost. Why
is an arrow fast enough
if I minimize a window,
why, you know, dammit, I
want that video or that
window to go, boom. Right.
And one of my work,
yeah, right now my ATI
Raytheon is just really struggling
with, with, with arrow. And
I'm pretty much had it
with ATI at this point.
Well, Scott, that's a, it's
been a great show. I
mean, we don't usually talk
about hardware like this, but
I find it. I find
it cool to just take
a look and see what
the state of the art
is. So thanks for that.
And we'll have to catch
up later after you get
it and have been running
it for a few weeks
and let us know how
it works. Yeah. And I
would really encourage listeners to
send in their opinions because,
you know, I don't claim
in any way to be
an expert on this kind
of stuff. I'm just a
guy who reads a lot.
I trust Jeff, we've gone
back and forth in the
assembling of this machine. He,
he cares about the overclocking
and getting it right with
it with a level of
passion and detail that I
don't necessarily share. I wanted
to find a machine that
wasn't just a stock Dell
that had had some future
proofing to it. That was
a good balance. I think
I've put together a pretty
decent machine. I know that
a lot of our listeners
are putting together their own
machine. So I'm really interested
in what they've come up
with to squeeze that last
little bit of speed out
of a development. Awesome. With
that, we'll see you next
week on Hanselman's.